---
layout: page
title: Information about Title IX
permalink: /title-ix-information
---

Regardless of location, if sexual violence on a college campus takes place, the words Title IX are always included. Ever since 1972 when Title IX was passed, postsecondary institutions have a very specific and strict set of guidelines for responding to and managing sexual violence. (Sharp, Weaver, & Zvonkovic, 2017, p.11). In the article, “Introduction to the Special issue: Feminist Framings of Sexual Violence on College Campuses”, Sharp, Weaver, and Zvonkovic (2017) give a brief history of Title IX starting from when it was passed. “The Patsy T. Mink Equal Opportunity in Education Act (Title IX) was passed by the U.S. Congress in 1972 in an attempt to end and prevent sexual discrimination in schools” (p. 11).

Title IX was never intended to be well known for its protections of victims of sexual harassment, but due to the specificity that education must give equal access to everyone, sexual harassment guidelines fit nicely into the act. Sharp, Weaver, and Zyonkovic (2017) reference the Clery Act, which “requires college and universities (both public and private) that receive federal funding to disclose information about criminal activity on or near campus, including sexual assault and violence” (Sharp et al., 2017, p. 11). The Clery Act is important for this project because it requires postsecondary institutions to report specific crimes and violations on campus which is then reported online. This project analyzes at these required reports that are posted by the US Department of Education. Further, another revision of Title IX was released titled the Dear Colleague Letter which specified that sexual assault, sexual battery, and rape be classified under sexual harassment (Sharp et al., 2017, p. 11).
